.TH FPLAUNCH-CONFIG 1 "May 2026" "fplaunchwrapper 1.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fplaunch-config \- manage fplaunchwrapper configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fplaunch-config
.RI [ACTION] [VALUE]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fplaunch-config
manages the fplaunchwrapper configuration file, allowing you to view,
initialize, and modify settings.
.PP
The configuration file is stored at:
.I ~/.config/fplaunchwrapper/config.toml
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B show
Display the current configuration. This is the default action if no
action is specified.
.TP
.B init
Initialize a new configuration file with default values. If a
configuration already exists, it will be backed up before being
replaced.
.TP
.B cron-interval [HOURS]
Get or set the cron job interval for automatic wrapper regeneration.
If called without a value, displays the current interval. If called with
a value, sets the interval to that number of hours.
.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
The configuration file supports the following options:
.TP
.B bin_dir
Directory where wrapper scripts are stored. Defaults to
.I ~/bin\fR.
.TP
.B data_dir
Directory for fplaunchwrapper data. Defaults to
.I ~/.local/share/fplaunchwrapper\fR.
.TP
.B log_level
Logging verbosity. Valid values: DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR.
.TP
.B debug_mode
Enable debug mode. Valid values: true, false.
.TP
.B hook_failure_mode_default
Default behavior when hooks fail. Valid values: abort, warn, ignore.
.TP
.B active_profile
Currently active configuration profile.
.TP
.B permission_presets
Dictionary of permission presets for Flatpak sandbox overrides.
.TP
.B schema_version
Configuration file format version.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Show current configuration:
.B fplaunch-config show
.TP
Initialize configuration with defaults:
.B fplaunch-config init
.TP
Get current cron interval:
.B fplaunch-config cron-interval
.TP
Set cron interval to 12 hours:
.B fplaunch-config cron-interval 12
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT
Example configuration:
.PP
.nf
.RS
[settings]
bin_dir = "/home/user/bin"
data_dir = "/home/user/.local/share/fplaunchwrapper"
log_level = "INFO"
debug_mode = false

[hooks]
hook_failure_mode_default = "warn"

[global_preferences]
launch_method = "auto"

[profiles]
active_profile = "default"

[permission_presets]
gaming = ["--device=dri", "--socket=pulseaudio"]
development = ["--share=network", "--filesystem=home"]
.RE
.fi
.SH PROFILES
Configuration profiles allow you to maintain multiple configurations:
.TP
.B fplaunch profiles list
List available profiles.
.TP
.B fplaunch profiles create NAME
Create a new profile.
.TP
.B fplaunch profiles switch NAME
Switch to a different profile.
.TP
.B fplaunch profiles export NAME [FILE]
Export a profile to a file.
.TP
.B fplaunch profiles import FILE [NAME]
Import a profile from a file.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
If set, configuration is read from
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/fplaunchwrapper
instead of
.I ~/.config/fplaunchwrapper\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred (file not found, invalid action, etc.).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fplaunch (1),
.BR fplaunch-generate (1),
.BR fplaunch-profiles (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the fplaunchwrapper contributors.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/dtg01100/fplaunchwrapper/issues
