.TH FPLAUNCH-MONITOR 1 "May 2026" "fplaunchwrapper 1.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fplaunch-monitor \- monitor Flatpak installations and update wrappers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fplaunch-monitor
.RI [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fplaunch-monitor
starts a daemon that watches for changes to Flatpak installations and
automatically updates wrapper scripts when applications are installed,
updated, or removed.
.PP
The monitor watches the following directories for changes:
.IP \(bu 3
.I /var/lib/flatpak
\- System-wide Flatpak installations
.IP \(bu 3
.I ~/.local/share/flatpak
\- User Flatpak installations
.PP
When changes are detected, the monitor triggers wrapper regeneration to
ensure wrappers stay synchronized with the installed applications.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-daemon
Run in daemon mode (background). The monitor will run in the background
and continue watching for changes until stopped.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.SH BEHAVIOR
.SS Event Detection
The monitor uses the
.B watchdog
library to detect file system events. Events are:
.IP \(bu 3
Processed only for Flatpak-related paths
.IP \(bu 3
Batched within a 1-second window to reduce redundant operations
.IP \(bu 3
Deduplicated to prevent rapid-fire regenerations
.PP
A 2-second cooldown period prevents the monitor from regenerating
wrappers too frequently.
.SS Regeneration
When changes are detected:
.IP \(bu 3
The monitor runs
.B fplaunch-generate
to update wrappers
.IP \(bu 3
Installed Flatpak applications are discovered
.IP \(bu 3
Wrappers are created for new applications
.IP \(bu 3
Wrappers for removed applications are cleaned up
.SS Signal Handling
The monitor handles the following signals:
.TP
.B SIGINT
Clean shutdown (Ctrl+C)
.TP
.B SIGTERM
Clean shutdown
.SH DAEMON MODE
When run with
.B \-\-daemon\fR,
the monitor:
.IP \(bu 3
Forks to the background
.IP \(bu 3
Disconnects from the controlling terminal
.IP \(bu 3
Continues running until explicitly stopped
.PP
To stop the daemon, send a signal:
.PP
.B killall fplaunch-monitor
.PP
Or use the process ID stored by systemd if available.
.SH SYSTEMD INTEGRATION
For automatic startup and management, enable the systemd user service:
.PP
.B fplaunch systemd enable
.PP
This creates a systemd service that runs the monitor as a user-level
service, automatically starting on login and restarting on failure.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The monitor uses the main fplaunchwrapper configuration:
.TP
.I ~/.config/fplaunchwrapper/config.toml
Main configuration file controlling wrapper behavior.
.TP
.I ~/.config/fplaunchwrapper/bin_dir
Directory where wrapper scripts are stored.
.PP
See
.BR fplaunch-config (1)
for configuration details.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run monitor in foreground (for testing):
.B fplaunch-monitor
.TP
Run monitor in daemon mode:
.B fplaunch-monitor \-\-daemon
.TP
Stop the daemon:
.B killall fplaunch-monitor
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Monitor exited normally (e.g., received SIGINT or SIGTERM).
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred (e.g., watchdog not available, permission denied).
.TP
.B 2
Invalid arguments provided.
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
.B watchdog
Python library for file system monitoring. Install with:
.PP
.B pip install watchdog
.PP
If not installed, the monitor will print an error and exit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fplaunch (1),
.BR fplaunch-generate (1),
.BR fplaunch-systemd (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the fplaunchwrapper contributors.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/dtg01100/fplaunchwrapper/issues
