.TH FPLAUNCH-LAUNCH 1 "May 2026" "fplaunchwrapper 1.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fplaunch-launch \- launch a Flatpak application via its wrapper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fplaunch-launch
.RI [OPTIONS] APP_NAME
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fplaunch-launch
launches a Flatpak application using its fplaunchwrapper wrapper script.
This allows launching applications with their configured preferences,
environment variables, and pre/post-launch hooks.
.PP
The command finds the wrapper for the specified application name and
executes it with any provided arguments.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B APP_NAME
The name of the application to launch (e.g., "firefox", "chrome").
.TP
.B \-\-hook\-failure [abort|warn|ignore]
Override hook failure mode for this launch:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
.I abort
\- Stop the launch entirely if a hook fails (pre-launch only)
.IP \(bu 3
.I warn
\- Continue with a warning message (default)
.IP \(bu 3
.I ignore
\- Continue silently without warning
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-abort\-on\-hook\-failure
Abort launch if any hook fails. Shorthand for
.B \-\-hook\-failure abort\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-ignore\-hook\-failure
Ignore hook failures silently. Shorthand for
.B \-\-hook\-failure ignore\fR.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.SH HOOK FAILURE MODES
Pre-launch and post-launch scripts can be configured for each wrapper.
These hooks control actions taken before the application starts or after it
completes.
.PP
When a hook fails, the
.B hook failure mode
determines what happens:
.TP
.I abort
The launch is stopped entirely. This only applies to pre-launch hooks;
post-launch hooks cannot abort since the application has already run.
.TP
.I warn
A warning message is printed but execution continues.
.TP
.I ignore
Hook failure is silently ignored.
.PP
Hook failure mode can be set at multiple levels (highest to lowest priority):
.IP \(bu 3
CLI options (\fB\-\-hook\-failure\fR, \fB\-\-abort\-on\-hook\-failure\fR)
.IP \(bu 3
Environment variable \fBFPWRAPPER_HOOK_FAILURE\fR
.IP \(bu 3
Per-app configuration in config.toml
.IP \(bu 3
Global default in config.toml (\fBhook_failure_mode_default\fR)
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B FPWRAPPER_HOOK_FAILURE
Set hook failure mode for all launches in this session.
.TP
.B FPWRAPPER_WRAPPER_NAME
Set to the wrapper name during hook execution.
.TP
.B FPWRAPPER_APP_ID
Set to the Flatpak application ID during hook execution.
.TP
.B FPWRAPPER_SOURCE
Set to "system" or "flatpak" during hook execution.
.TP
.B FPWRAPPER_EXIT_CODE
Set to the application exit code during post-launch hook execution.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Launch Firefox:
.B fplaunch-launch firefox
.TP
Launch with abort on hook failure:
.B fplaunch-launch firefox \-\-abort\-on\-hook\-failure
.TP
Launch with ignore on hook failure:
.B fplaunch-launch firefox \-\-ignore\-hook\-failure
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Application launched successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Launch failed (application not found, blocked, or hook aborted).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fplaunch (1),
.BR fplaunch-generate (1),
.BR fplaunch-manage (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the fplaunchwrapper contributors.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/dtg01100/fplaunchwrapper/issues
