.TH FPLAUNCH-MANAGE 1 "November 2025" "fplaunchwrapper 1.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fplaunch-manage \- manage Flatpak wrapper scripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fplaunch-manage
.I command
.RI [ args ]
.br
.B fplaunch-manage
.B \-\-help
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fplaunch-manage
is the primary management tool for Flatpak Launch Wrappers. It allows you to
create, configure, and manage wrapper scripts that provide convenient command-line
access to Flatpak applications.
.PP
Flatpak Launch Wrappers automatically create shell scripts in your PATH that launch
Flatpak applications, allowing you to run them as if they were native commands.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Wrapper Management
.TP
.B list
List all current wrapper scripts with their corresponding Flatpak application IDs.
.TP
.BI "search " keyword
Search for wrappers by name, Flatpak ID, or description. Case-insensitive.
.TP
.BI "remove " name
Remove a specific wrapper script and its associated configuration.
.TP
.B regenerate
Regenerate all wrapper scripts. Useful after Flatpak updates or configuration changes.
.TP
.B files
List all generated files (wrappers, configs, aliases).
.TP
.B uninstall
Remove all generated files and configuration. Equivalent to running
.BR fplaunch-cleanup (1).
.SS Preferences
.TP
.BI "set-pref " "name system" | flatpak
Set launch preference for a specific wrapper. \fBsystem\fR prefers native system
commands, \fBflatpak\fR prefers the Flatpak version.
.TP
.BI "remove-pref " name
Remove the launch preference for a wrapper, reverting to default behavior.
.TP
.BI "set-pref-all " "system" | flatpak
Set launch preference for all wrappers at once.
.TP
.BI "export-prefs " file
Export preferences and blocklist to a file for backup or transfer.
.TP
.BI "import-prefs " file
Import preferences and blocklist from a previously exported file.
.TP
.BI "export-config " file
Export full configuration including preferences, environment variables, and aliases.
.TP
.BI "import-config " file
Import full configuration from a previously exported file.
.SS Environment Variables
.TP
.BI "set-env " "name var value"
Set an environment variable that will be passed to the wrapper when launched.
.TP
.BI "remove-env " "name var"
Remove a previously set environment variable.
.TP
.BI "list-env " name
List all environment variables configured for a wrapper.
.SS Scripts
.TP
.BI "set-script " "name path"
Set a pre-launch script to run before the wrapper executes. The script receives
the wrapper name and arguments.
.TP
.BI "set-post-script " "name path"
Set a post-run script to execute after the wrapper completes.
.TP
.BI "remove-script " name
Remove the pre-launch script for a wrapper.
.TP
.BI "remove-post-script " name
Remove the post-run script for a wrapper.
.SS Aliases
.TP
.BI "set-alias " "name alias"
Create an alias (symlink) to a wrapper. Allows multiple names for the same application.
.TP
.BI "remove-alias " alias
Remove an alias symlink.
.SS Blocklist
.TP
.BI "block " id
Block a Flatpak application ID from wrapper generation. Useful for preventing
unwanted wrappers.
.TP
.BI "unblock " id
Remove a Flatpak ID from the blocklist.
.TP
.B list-blocked
List all blocked Flatpak application IDs.
.SS Application Management
.TP
.BI "install " "app " [ remote ]
Install a Flatpak application and automatically create its wrapper.
.TP
.BI "launch " name
Launch a wrapper by name.
.TP
.BI "info " name
Show detailed information about a wrapper including its ID, preferences, environment
variables, and scripts.
.TP
.BI "manifest " "name " [ remote | local ]
Display the Flatpak manifest for a wrapper. Defaults to remote manifest.
.SS Help
.TP
.B help
Show usage information.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/flatpak-wrappers/
Configuration directory for all wrapper settings.
.TP
.I ~/.config/flatpak-wrappers/bin_dir
File containing the path to the wrapper script directory.
.TP
.I ~/.config/flatpak-wrappers/blocklist
List of blocked Flatpak application IDs.
.TP
.I ~/.config/flatpak-wrappers/*.pref
Preference files for individual wrappers.
.TP
.I ~/.config/flatpak-wrappers/*.env
Environment variable files for individual wrappers.
.TP
.I ~/.config/flatpak-wrappers/aliases
Alias configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.local/bin/
Default location for wrapper scripts (configurable).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List all wrappers:
.B fplaunch-manage list
.TP
Search for Firefox-related wrappers:
.B fplaunch-manage search firefox
.TP
Set preference to use Flatpak version:
.B fplaunch-manage set-pref firefox flatpak
.TP
Create an alias:
.B fplaunch-manage set-alias firefox ff
.TP
Block an application from wrapper generation:
.B fplaunch-manage block org.example.UnwantedApp
.TP
Export configuration for backup:
.B fplaunch-manage export-config ~/fplaunch-backup.tar.gz
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
If set, configuration is stored in \fI$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/flatpak-wrappers\fR
instead of \fI~/.config/flatpak-wrappers\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fplaunch-generate (1),
.BR fplaunch-setup-systemd (1),
.BR fplaunch-cleanup (1),
.BR flatpak (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the fplaunchwrapper contributors.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/dtg01100/fplaunchwrapper/issues
